'''
Heat Map — Showing the relationship between two factors.
Examples: Segmentation analysis of target market, product adoption across regions, sales leads by individual rep.

Bar — Comparing data across categories.
Examples: Volume of shirts in different sizes, website traffic by origination site, percent of spending by department.

Line — Viewing trends in data over time.
Examples: Stock price change over a five-year period, website page views during a month, revenue growth by quarter.

Highlight Table — Providing detailed information on heat maps.
Examples: The percent of a market for different segments, sales numbers in a particular region, population of cities in different years.

Treemap — Showing hierarchical data as a proportion of a whole.
Examples: Storage usage across computer machines, managing the number and priority of technical support cases, comparing fiscal budgets between years.

Gantt — Showing duration over time.
Examples: Project timeline, duration of a machine’s use, availability of players on a team.

Bullet — Evaluating performance of a metric against a goal.
Examples: Sales quota assessment, actual spending vs. budget, performance spectrum (great/good/poor).

Scatterplot — Investigating the relationship between different variables.
Examples: Male versus female likelihood of having lung cancer at different ages, technology early adopters’ and laggards’ purchase patterns of smart phones, shipping costs of different product categories to different regions.

Histogram — Understanding the distribution of your data.
Examples: Number of customers by company size, student performance on an exam, frequency of a product defect.

Symbol maps — Use for totals rather than rates. Be careful, as small differences will be hard to see.
Examples: Number of customers in different geographies.

Area maps — Use for rates rather than totals. Use sensible base geography.
Examples: Rates of internet-usage in certain geographies, house prices in different neighborhoods.

Box-and-Whisker — Showing the distribution of a set of a data.
Examples: Understanding your data at a glance, seeing how data is skewed towards one end, identifying outliers in your data.

'''
